A. Residential: 
Residential properties are homes or apartments. These might be single-family houses, 
townhouses, gated communities, Apartments, Condominiums, Hostels outside the University, 
Senior Assisted living Facilities (Old Age Homes). 

• Residential 
• Single Residential Unit  
• Multi Residential Unit / Apartment complexes/ Condominium Complex 
• Gated Communities / Town Houses  

1. SRU (Single Residential Unit):  

A Single Residential Unit is a standalone building / individual house where only a single family 
lives. Its visual appearance is that of a villa or duplex houses.  
Ex: refer the image on the right. 

• Individual house (Single Residential Unit) 
• Residential (SRU) 
• Business running in SRU 

Individual Operating from Home (IOFH)? 

An Individual Operating from home best defines about a commercial running from a home. 
When we search for an address in Google Maps, the knowledge panel shows us the address / 
building name along with type of building it is. Sometimes, we reach to address which looks like 
a residential property but has commercials within them. They cannot be defined as public 
service commercial, but instead the search engine suggests a particular profession / 
occupation of the person who has updated their details in GMaps. Let us look at an example: 
5448 Kenwill Dr, Nanaimo, BC V9T 5M5, Canada. (street view of the address) 
Examples of IOFH: Consultant, designer, electrician, translator, advisor, writer, pet groomer, 
photographer, web designer, book keeper, plumber, accounting and auditing clerk, Editorial 
services, Personal trainer, Interior Decorator, Event planner, painter, contractors, music bands.  
All the above-mentioned examples and relevant scenarios should be considered as 
RESIDENTIAL only.  

** If the property looks like a residential but has commercial name and a sign board, try to have 
a verbal confirmation. Update as commercial  
Action to be taken: After identifying the property as Single Residential Unit, we mark the 
address type as Residential and close the exception. 
 
2. Multi Residential Unit: 

Multi Residential Unit (MRU) is a property of multiple residential units located in the same 
building. In the MRU also, we can sometimes identify few IOFH and we can still consider them 
as ‘Residential’. We need to search for a POC for the apartment and make a call and try to 
validate just like other address. If the Address is successfully validated we need to update all 
the details in both building and unit level. But if the call does not go through; update only unit 
level.  
Action to be taken: After identifying the property as Multi Residential Unit, we mark the address 
type as Residential and close the exception. If the call goes through also update BH and other 
applicable attributes. 

3. Gated Community (with SRU or MRU): 

A gated community is a form of residential community or housing estate containing strictly 
controlled entrances. A gated community can contain many Single Residential Units or many 
Multi Residential Units in the same compound. We might identify few IOFH and we can still 
consider them as ‘Residential’. Gated Communities have a similar pattern of roofs for 
identification. Refer the images for better understanding.   
Action to be taken: After identifying the property as a Gated Community, we mark the address 
type as Residential and close the exception. If the call goes through also update BH and other 
applicable attributes.
 
4. Vacant Property:  

Whenever we see the address is a vacant or empty land on all three maps (bing, google maps, 
geo data editor) we need to update address type as residential. No other attribute to be 
updated. Use Vacant property comments in GROK.  

B. Commercial: 
 
A type property that has business hours and provides a service to the public. This can include 
office space, hotels and resorts, strip malls, restaurants, and healthcare facilities. 
**. A property with a single commercial within a single unit is known as single / individual 
commercial whereas, 
a property with two or more businesses within a single unit is known as multi commercial.  
Action to be taken: After identifying the property as commercial, try to gather the details 
through verbal confirmation and web- scraping. Update the attributes in GAM. Address type has 
to be marked as ‘Commercial’. 
 
C. FQA Only Address:  

Any address that belongs to the below mentioned characterized address should be considered 
as FQA only address and they should not be called even if we find any POC to contact. No 
business hours also should be updated.  
1. Federal Buildings-central Government Office. 
2. Universities  
3. Colleges  
4. Prison/ Jails  
5. Thermal plants  
6. Military / Airforce / Navy 
7. Schools (Primary, Elementary, Middle and High schools)  catholic school , pre schools  
For above properties comes under FQA , for these we are not updating anything in GAM 
,only FQA GROK comment needs to be updated . 

D. FFS( freight forward services:) 

Properties like , usps, ups (united state postal services), courier services, logistic servicess 
,shipping servicess frieght forwading servicess /agencies.  
We need to make a call and do the validation normally by giving the comment as FFS. 
Note: Any property outside the university is marked as commercial/res.  
Courts, Banks and police stations, city government offices, state government offices, tax 
collectors, tax services also can be called commercial they do not come under FQA.  
Atm, cash points ,amazon lockers ,charging station, money transfer services this business 
we are not considering as business. 

E. Mixed:  

A property that combines commercial, residential and sometimes even industrial units. (EX: 
property with a shop on the ground floor and apartments in the upper parts.) 
Commercial + Residential = Mixed  
Action to be taken: After identifying the property as Mixed,for these we are not updating 
anything in GAM ,only MIXED  GROK comment needs to be updated . 
Follow the source link to identify the Mixed property: (copy and paste the hyperlink in browser) 
Ex 1:  4806 47 Ave, Leduc, AB T9E 5X7, Canada – this property contains multiple residential and 
commercial units. Hence considered as Mixed. 
Ex 2: 786 St Clair Ave W, Toronto, ON M6C 1B6, Canada – this property has a commercial at the 
ground level and residential on level 1. Hence considered as Mixed.  